# Deep Dive w/Scott


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


Housekeeping
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome.
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Next week will be on Friday again. The week after will be on Thursday.


8:05 Plan
* Questions
* 10:30 Handed off 6.0.0 to Dan along with (12:42)  deep sleep work.
* 29:31 portenta
* 32:00 open book
* 33:33 instant boot - not quite - on bare metal on RPi 
* 39:00 ( something heads up to order… )
* 40:30 Have been improving ESP32SPI and Requests.
* 44:19 MiniMqqt not tested yet on featherS2
* 47:13 weather display and requests on matrix portal
* 25:10 Distracted by the election.
* 1:01:08 Want to make an EInk Portal project today.
* 1:10:38 MagTag powered up 
* 1:10:57 PR- rename product
* 1:12:44 Sony Z-V1 camera highlight…
* 1:14:20 MagTag features
* 1:22:00 first ‘make’
* 1:27:00 programming the magtag complete
* 1:31:29 push and request review
* 1:32:25 update github workflow for magtag
* 1:37:20 discuss disabling autoreload
* 1:41:44 code - wifi weather 
* 1:43:34 download latest adafruit request
* 1:48:59 using openweathermap.org api with disposable key
* 1:52:20 retrieved weather information
* 2:03:03 - last call for questions ….
* 2:04:00 - electioncal future… 
* 2:05:55 - there are bugs stil ( in the weather python test )l ….
* 2:07:25 - wrap up
* 2:09:15 - pet the cat
*
