# Deep Dive w/Scott


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


05:17 Housekeeping
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome.
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.
* Next week is on Thursday and the last stream of the year.


10:53 Plan
* 11:22 What is it about the S2 that allows for sleep? Is there anything blocking the M4 or M0 feathers?
* 16:27 For lowest power, can we reduce the current draw with the 'power' LED in software ( or is it surgery with a soldering iron? )
* 20:16 nice. where do you think the NRF52840 boards will be in the pipeline for sleep functionality?
* 21:40 circuitpython2020
* 30:24 a quick question Scott.. when it’s a good idea to use BLE over WiFi?..thanks
* 33:17 The CIRCUITPY disk I now have in the Kaluga has only approx 1MB of space. Can that be increased?
* 43:55 Where did the name MagTag come from?
* 47:41 one minor question. i noticed that in the i2c code you use the Freertos static semaphore in a way that works but isnt really documented. Using the static buffer as the semaphore handle. the api doesnt document that, i found random notes somewhere.
* 53:27 To further distract you before we dive in, what happened with the space requirements for those error statements? (I got distracted and missed updates over the past two weeks?)
* 55:25 Just a random question Scott(tangent alert) ...can an E ink display be used as a memory storage?.. since they are a persistant display...🤔
* 59:37 multicore
* 1:13:29 Pin alarm!
* 1:26:16 circuitpython on new chips
