# Deep Dive w/Scott


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


Housekeeping
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome.
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.
* <Any notice about next week’s stream and timing.> Time change in USA


Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q2SjPZUsgP8


Plan
* 03:09 hello 
* 06:56 housekeeping
* 11:25 How do you keep the cats away from the workstation and hot irons?
* 12:40 how far is circuitpython's implementation of asynchronous I/O scheduler (uasyncio)?
* 14:44 Is there a time you'd pick the STM32F405 Feather over the SAMD51 feather? They seem similarly capable, but Adafruit seems all-in on the SAMD51
* 16:10 there was no feather airlift so ordered 1 on digikey which has not even shipped yet  Ordered another airlift yesterday from adafruit when it came back in stock so which one will show up first?
* 18:05 Feather RP2040 flash speed fix
* 18:34 OSHPark  USBmicromod/v1
* 19:29 Are you using debug-edge in anything? Know anyone else who is using it?
* 24:58 SMT assembly at OSH Park ( no )
* 25:11 how does OSH's flex pcb compare to the flex PCB on the neopixel/dotstar strips
* 26:41 Overhead / RP2040 feathers… flash socket
* 34:30 How big flash chip we can use with Metro/Feather M4 express? I tried mounting 64Mb but circuitpython didn't support it!!!
* 35:37 nvm.TOML improvements
* 38:43 Salea Logic Pro 16 work
* 40:52 Is there a good small library for ingesting uart stuff, and parsing into variables, in CP ? (for multi headed use cases)
* 41:19 back to the logic analyzer…. Examining the clock speed up during the boot process
* 51:10 Luke mentions RXDLY  see boot2_w25q80.S for reference
* 55:46 Well it delays your sampling to the point in time where you launch the next clock transition
which should still give you plenty of hold time
because your data hold will be equal to round trip delay
​so RX_SAMPLE_DLY = 1 should be fine for BAUDR = 2
ha, I bet the second read is the hardfault vector fetch
* 58:35 - works one time when new software is installed, but not on power up
* 1:00:30 is there a good source to understand how PIO was implemented? Its not part of the M0 "platform", right? So I'm assuming it’s something uniquely developed for the RP2040
* 1:01:30 updating firmware again….
* 1:06:09 Lady Ada drops in1
* 1:07:14 ItsyBitsy RP2040 prototype ( launching with 4MB flash? )
Discussion of Flash speed
* 1:17:30 - Luke added “there is more timing to play with -- for boot2_w25q80 we also disable input schmitt to get good setup timing. Have run the winbond devices at their max 133 MHz SCK reliably” ​(with RP2040 running a bit off-label :-)  )
* 1:21:11 ‘quad enable bit non-volatile’ frustration / warning….
* 1:38:40 - catch desk of ladyada on Sunday!
* 1:39:15 bye LadyAda
* 1:39:30 Does this relate to the QT-Py flash?
* 1:40:02 so is there a volatile QSPI enable also?
* 1:41:25 Can Micro Python libraries work on Circuit Python?
* 1:42:06 Schmidt Trigger idea from Luke …
* 1:44:02 how do you get those cool colors and such in your terminal prompt??
* 1:44:20 Scott’s quick build machine -j32 
* 1:48:45 commit code before moving back to C…
* 1:52:40 Did you get the Pomona clip working from last week?
* 1:53:30 What are you not allowed to tell us ?
* 1:55:15 ​is that 2 x 5 SWD header difficult to solder on?
* 1:56:55 how many times is a decent test for reliability in this sort of case?
* 1:59:25 rebase code 
* 2:00:30 responding to spam calls .. 
* 2:01:00 pull request
* 2:02:30 why are you using Mac? and why not Linux?
* 2:03:29 so what do you use to capture the camera feeds?
* 2:05:14 wrap up
* 2:06:28 sign off 4:07pm...
