# Deep Dive w/Scott for February 26th, 2021


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


06:29 Housekeeping
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Next week will be on Thursday!
* Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome.
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.
* 

Plan
* Pimoroni Boards!
* RP2040 UART
* Rotaryio
* Flash system rework


Timecodes
* 12:17 will there be a rp2040 board with wifi on it?
* 13:32 Would it possible theoretically to have a module that works in the background kind of like rotaryio or gamepad but is responsible for reading touch screen data and queuing it up to return to the foreground coded when requested?
* 14:45 any RISC-V port plans for CP (ala ESP32C3 or BeagleV)
* 17:56 Is it possible to use an ESP32 board to connect to Wifi?
* 19:13 Is there a way of obfuscating code on the device?
* 20:12 would it be fair to characterize the pico as a more CP friendly cortex M0 than the SAMD21 boards from adafruit, given the increased RAM and clock speed?
* 21:18 blinka on beagleboard considering putting Blinka/CP on BeagleV as GSOC project for BeagleBoard.org
* 21:38 video / VGA?
* 25:54 Is it possible to use a QSPI PSRAM chip with the RP2040 like is used on the ESP32-WROVER and Teensy 4.1?
* 28:08 rp2040 chips sent out to vendors / Pimoroni on CP Downloads
* 30:14 CP PR   ( closed )
* 31:19 Does Adafruit have any plans for the new dual core asymmetric multiprocessing chips like the STM32H series and the similar chips from Freescale?
* 32:18 Is Raspberry Pi releasing just stand alone chips for everyone? Or is this limited to only partner board-makers (like Adafruit)?
* 33:20 pronounce… Pimoroni
* 33:55 tuple …
* 34:13 Wiznet5k library still requires bus_device library, which moved to core? As in native.
* 34:33 "Pimoroni stands for Pirate, Monkey, Robot, Ninja (Pi-Mo-Ro-Ni) and sounds like the name of an expensive Italian lager. It's pronounced Pih-mo-row-kne"
* 35:12 Do micropython and Circuit python have the same memory requirements?
* 36:33 EN-UK support in CP?
* 37:05 recap CP PR’s
* 37:34 EN-Pirate ( sommersoft )
* 37:55 Secondary USB CDC (serial) channel - bug 231
* 39:30 Many people had projects for the second Serial... where are those projects now?
* 39:49 Any hope of using a second serial on SAMD21?
* 40:21 does the 2nd USB port mean that you can use USB serial while testing Deep Sleep instead of simulating it
* 41:56 Bit transpose (jepler)
* 42:29 On a side note, newer versions of CPython support breakpoint() instead of having to use import pdb; pdb.set_trace()
* 44:21 I2S support  rp2pio pinstate/direction ...
* 45:31 ​Scott, did you fix the error messages, or do you still want me to do the PR?
* 46:00 ​I bet your Python linter loves that StateMachine constructor with all those arguments
* 48:48 Fix second shared PWM
* 50:40 pin changes between Rev A and Rev C in rp2040 feather… 
* 52:00 Will you be announcing the availability of Feather2040 in the store during a deep dive again? Worked well for the MagTag!
* 52:50 Can CP know the USB host status? i.e. connect to a phone, and it goes to sleep.
* 54:05 Next week is Thursday 
* 57:00 RP2040 support for UART / merged
* 57:44 Can I "link" the second CDC serial to a UART and do USB to Serial with a Pico?
* 1:01:00 Can you demo your workflow fixing spelling mistakes?
* 1:02:13  but does the pico work on arduino IDE yet or will it ever work on it?
* 1:02:45 Was there a Mu meeting and will Mu be confused with the second CDC serial?
* 1:03:55 typo PR demo
* 1:05:05 ( tutorial on how to edit from github )
* 1:06:23 I am thinking about building a vt220 dumb terminal for use on my PDP11/23 emulation. … see raspberry pi terminal project site:blog.adafruit.com (pygraphics https://github.com/fbergama/pigfx )
* 1:08:11 Aside: I just did some tests with supervisor.runtime.serial_connected and it is True if you are connected to the board's REPL serial port but it is False if the board is connected to USB and doing HID/MIDI/MSD stuff. I cannot find something that says "USB host present"
* 1:09:13 adafruit projects learn.adafruit.com
* 1:10:00 Bare metal - meaning…
* 1:10:33 ​are there any plans for a visual studio code RP2040 CircuitPython emulator like the Playground express
* 1:11:19 - typo fix build caught error - git ‘magic’
* 1:13:03 not sure if this was covered yet but with the pico how is the UART work going - I can see good results in the PR - would there be an eta on that?
* 1:13:04 Speaking of RTOS - Shawn Hymel from Digi-Key has been working on a Youtube series about developing on an MCU with FreeRTOS
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F321087yYy4&list=PLEBQazB0HUyQ4hAPU1cJED6t3DU0h34bz
* 1:17:40 Do you folks do automated unit test using a hardware fixture to emulate devices?…. ( no )
* 1:20:20 We can have a build system/testing session on Discord sometime.
* 1:22:00 bergdahl’s merge request….
* 1:23:40 Ladyada joined…
* 1:24:42 - building the tester for the feather rp2040 pcbs
* 1:29:45 Programming boards using SWD and  https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit_DAP  
* 1:33:00 Feather RP2040 Tester screenshot…
* 1:34:00 UF2 is twice as big… 
* 1:40:20 BLE workflow is the next think
* 1:41:19 UF2 
* 1:43:52 Fixing release for Johny - ( hope he checked the box allow maintainers to edit… )   Need to do a make translate
* 1:45:11 - ​Q: Can you explain what doesn't get whacked in light sleep (how does "audio playback" continue?). Do I/O pins retain state, PWMs keep running, etc...?
* 1:47:10 speaking of light sleep, since it basically enables to come out of time.sleep with a pin interrupt or something, shouldn't it be supported apart from deep sleep, in order to make it easier to have it on more ports
* 1:48:15 move to ninja build system...
* 1:50:05 … bs2_default_padded_checksum.S
* 1:50:44 IMX - c structures to describe flash -... execute off flash
* 1:50:00 external_flash structures for CP
* 1:53:00 unify the way we store flash descriptions ( TOML )   https://toml.io/en/
* 1:55:10 Embedded rust - ​Oh, this sounds like rust I would love to do a rust version of the RP2040 and it looks like you might be going sort of that direction as well.
* 1:57:30 also support for MRAM
* 2:07:00 tomlkit on github - python tool that preserves comments  https://github.com/sdispater/tomlkit
* 2:09:20 Does TOML have conditional includes? That would make cascading a lot easier.... no 
* 2:10:15 Strict YAML ( see wikipedia )
* 2:12:15 - have you ever seen "the norway problem" with yaml, that's funny / if you parse a list of country codes which are bareword strings, then norway is parsed as false
* 2:13:28  -- overtime ….
* 2:14:40 Next week thursday
* 2:15:20 - cat petting
