# Deep Dive w/Scott


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


Housekeeping
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome. Next week will be on Friday as well.
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.


Plan
* Explain CPX pinout: https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-circuit-playground-express/pinouts
* Serial in code.circuitpython.org


Timestamps
* 0:07:15 housekeeping
* 0:09:25 What would be the most expensive  :blinka:  board? 
* 0:12:20 Does CP slow down the microcontroller.
* 0:13:36 explain Circuit Playground Express pinout ‘legend’ https://cdn-learn.adafruit.com/assets/assets/000/047/156/original/circuit_playground_Adafruit_Circuit_Playground_Express_Pinout.png?1507829017
* 0:27:04 is there a way to change Io that has specific functions like using a crossbar or IOMUX in the SAMD outside of bootloader settings?
* 0:29:04 Dive into SAMD hal busio i2c
* 0:32:00 ~ CP ‘bootloader’
* 0:32:43 CP essentials guide i2c - list all combinations if I2C
* 0:34:31  CP bug#4638: I2C_STEMMA vs STEMMA_I2C? ( how does board.i2c work? )
* 0:37:24 looking at old CP issues list
* 0:39:50 Is it time for a ‘native’ display driver for the microbit?
* 0:41:18 PewPew display ( pewpew10 )
* 0:43:06 pewpep10 issue 4979  / youtube PewPew 10 with CP - idea: debug interrupts with logic analyzer 
* 0:46:24 microbit update - microphone LED on bootup / discovery / “ello”
* 0:48:58 the first build of CP that doesn’t have USB!
* 0:51:02 code.circuitpython.org WebBluetooth
* 0:53:55 plug podcast talk-python-with-me  CircuitPython and MicroPython - Talk Python Live Stream
* 0:57:30 Connect web-serial to USB-serial
* 0:58:40 Javascript people doing cool things!
* 1:03:15 Web Serial API
* 1:05:35 Adafruit code reviews / transition to pull requests to support continuous integration
* 1:09:40 request serial port  serial.getPorts()
* 1:11:18 Readable / Writable stream
* 1:13:56 multiple serial ports from the same device
* 1:14:30  has anyone used a CP board to manage LED strips? I have a couple govee rgb strips that have an IOS app, but would like to control them without the app.
* 1:16:55 web usb spec https://web.dev/usb/
* 1:20:20 switchToSerial(device)
* 1:24:10 example has a bit more context around the while readable - https://wicg.github.io/serial/#close-method
* 1:26:30 console.log is so nice - debugging switchToSerial device.open()
* 1:30:55 How many reviewers does CP have? ( 5 or 6 )
* 1:33:20 that looks promising! ( getting data from the particle sensor )
* 1:35:40 Difference between “var” and “let”
* 1:37:40 “It’s alive” - text decoder displaying data!
* 1:47:20 have to say your are in an async function if you “await”
* 1:50:05 code running again - summarize limitations
* 1:51:11 check in the terrible code - as it is https://github.com/circuitpython/web-editor
* 1:54:13 wrapping up ( timecodes drifted over time - about a minute or so )
* 1:55:44 timecodes back in sync
* 1:58:38
