# Deep Dive w/Scott


Hi all, this doc is try and track topics and timecodes for my deep dive stream. These notes will end up in the YouTube video’s description. Any help keeping them groomed as I stream is welcome.


11:23 Housekeeping
* I’m sponsored by Adafruit to work on CircuitPython. Support them, and by extension me, by purchasing hardware from https://adafruit.com
* Chat with me and lot of others on the Adafruit Discord at https://adafru.it/discord.
* Deep Dive happens every week. Normally Fridays at 2pm Pacific but occasionally shifted to Thursday at 2pm. Typically goes for two hours or more. Questions are welcome.
* Heads up that the cat is epileptic. If he has a seizure I will mute and watch him to make sure he’s ok. After I’ll unmute and continue.
* <Any notice about next week’s stream and timing.>


Plan
* Project Bundle! https://blog.adafruit.com/2021/04/14/adafruitlearningsystem-weekly-update-project-bundle/
* 200 boards! https://circuitpython.org/downloads https://www.adafruit.com/200boards
* File Transfer Protocol status
* Remove LED line number blinks


Timestamps (5000 char max)
* 23:59 clap
* 0:00:21 - microlab 
* 0:01:22 adafruit benefits / support
* 4:39 housekeeping
* 11:49 Learn Guides / “project bundle”Zip file downloads - soon to be on Circup (sp)
* 16:27 200 boards that support CP milestone
* 19:07 Filter ‘thing’ support matrix on readthedocs.io
* 24:30 obfuscation techniques if you want to make Python code unreadable
* 25:30 - filter on ‘alarm’
* 20:00 downloads page has filters too
* 27:37 github actions, 1,500 repositories / github.com/circuitpython
* 30:30 TinyML for *python?
* 35:00 CI Monitor / problem matchers
* 37:41 installing micropython on rp2040  feather ( broken link … )
* 40:59  add a sentence (to CI) to say that if you need help from a human, come on discord etc?
* 42:22 BlueFruit ideas - phone/tablet focus
* 44:28 BLE_File_Transfer pull request
* 47:15 demo - about 5-6KBs - larger block about 11KBs
* 56:33 talk about how CP gets onto these devices that are BLE only? Will that a per chip mfg process
* 58:15 TinyML file transfer mention
* 59:35 Python Struct is ‘awesome’ / PR out there now
* 1:02:00 wrapped up: how's the BLE going?
* 1:03:04  Remove LED line number blinks
* 1:08:15 Android on the road map ?
* 1:10:35 LED is a problem for low power
* 1:17:20 on error - run this file (mentioned)
* 1:18:35 new branch / connect  jlink to feather
* 1:24:15 attempt to connect via gdb ( rebuild with DEBUG=1 to connect )
* 1:57:10 first compile 
* 1:59:44 last question call
* 2:00:00 set time between blinks configuration request
* 2:08:05 save mode blink
* 2:11:30 Safe mode ‘trick’ - fake it
* 2:14:28 Factor the blink-off delay out
* 2:17:28 ‘review’ the changes - and commit tannewt simplify_status_led
* 2:21:10 We can see Scott!
* 2:22:15 next week Friday
* 2:23:02 off stream
*
